---
layout: doc
title: API
category: doc
order: 10
---

## General 

Ichabod runs as a single-threaded process handling one request at a
time. In order to support parallel processing, consider running
multiple copies behind a proxy.

## Command line options

The following command line options control various aspects of the
rendering engine:

- **`--port`**
  
  The port to listen to for requests.

- **`--verbosity`**
  
  Debug output level. Specifying levels greater than zero will print out processing details to the console.

- **`--engine-verbosity`**
  
  Debug output level for rendering engine (qt webkit).

- **`--convert-verbosity`**
  
  Debug output level for image rasterization.

- **`--slow-response-ms`** 

  Number of milliseconds before considering a response to be
  slow. This could happen for several reasons (e.g., waiting on an
  external asset request). Once a slow response is detected, debug
  output is turned all the way up to aid in debugging.

- **`--quantize`**

  Quantization method to use when downsampling images for animated gif
  output. By default, this is `MEDIANCUT`, which is a high quality
  method for reducing the number of colors in an image. Other options are: 

    - `THRESHOLD` Fast and ugly color mapping
    - `DIFFUSE` Also fast, less ugly
    - `ORDERED` Very fast, very ugly
    - `MEDIANCUT` - Acceptable speed, high quality
    - `MEDIANCUT_FLOYD` - A modified version of `MEDIANCUT` using a different dithering algorithm.



- **`--version`**

  Output the version and quit.

- **`--statsd-host`**

  Optional statsd host.

- **`--statsd-port`**

  Optional statsd port.

- **`--statsd-ns`**

  Optional statsd namespace when sending activity.


## JSON Request

Ichabod only accepts requests formatted as a JSON object. Here are the
required and optional fields which are accepted:

- **`format`** Default is `png`. Also accepts `gif`.
- **`html`** HTML source code to render and rasterize. Also see `url`.
- **`url`** Optional. If no `html` is specified, the HTML from this URL will be used.
- **`js`** Javascript to execute after HTML is loaded and ready.
- **`rasterizer`** Optional. Name of the rendering object which can be controlled with javascript. Default is `ichabod`.
- **`output`** Path and filename to write the final image to. This must be accessible to the ichabod process.
- **`transparent`** Optional. Boolean value which can enable transparent background. Default is 1. Typically set to 0 for animated output.
- **`width`** Width of the virtual screen used to render the HTML.
- **`height`** Optional. Height of the virtual screen used to render the HTML. Default is -1, which will dynamically grow the height according to the HTML being rendered..
- **`crop_x`** Optional. X coordinate of final crop rectangle. Cropping takes place as the final step of rasterization.
- **`crop_y`** Optional. Y coordinate of final crop rectangle. Cropping takes place as the final step of rasterization.
- **`crop_w`** Optional. Width of final crop rectangle. Cropping takes place as the final step of rasterization.
- **`crop_h`** Optional. Height of final crop rectangle. Cropping takes place as the final step of rasterization.
- **`smart_width`** Optional. Dynamically grow the width according to HTML being rendered. Default is 1.
- **`css`** - Optional. Additional CSS to apply after the HTML is loaded.
- **`selector`** Optional. CSS selector to rasterize instead of the entire HTML body.
- **`load_timeout`** Optional. Maximum time allowed for a document to load before giving up. Typically used with `url`.
- **`enable_statsd`** Optional. Send activity to statsd.
- **`statsd_ns`** Optional. Namespace to use when communicating with statsd.


## JSON Response

After processing a request, a response is returned to the client as a
JSON string. The following fields are returned:

- **`conversion`** Boolean indicating whether a successful rasterization took place
- **`convert_elapsed`** Elapsed time for image rasterization
- **`errors`** List of human readable errors within ichabod and from the javascript console.
- **`path`** Output path of the rendered image. Will correspond to the request `output` field when successful.
- **`result`** Return value from the javascript. Can be null.
- **`run_elapsed`** Elapsed time for everything: handling the request, rendering the HTML and rastering the image.
- **`warnings`** List of human readable warnings, including javascript console output.


## Runtime object

After ichabod loads the HTML (either specified directly in the request
object, or loaded from a remote URL) then any javascript sent in the
request is executed. In order to trigger rasterization, an internal
javascript obejct (by default called `ichabod`) can be used. This
object has several useful methods:

- **`setTransparent`** Takes a boolean argument indicating whether or not background transparency should be used when rendering.
- **`setQuality`** Set the quality of the render as an integer from 1 to 100. By default, this is 50 which is a good tradeoff between speed and quality.
- **`setScreen`** Set the dimensions of the virtual screen for rasterization. Specify x, y, width and height as integers.
- **`setFormat`** Set the format of the rasterization output. Use `png` or `gif`.
- **`setLooping`** Takes a boolean to enable or disable looping for animated output.
- **`snapshotPage`** Rasterizes the entire HTML into memory. This method can be called multiple times. When writing animated files, you can also specify a delay (in milliseconds). When writing animated output, all rasterized images are compiled into a gif. When writing a static image as output, only the last rasterized image is used.
- **`snapshotElements`** Rasterizes one or more CSS identifiers within the HTML. Otherwise, similar to `snapshotPage`.
- **`saveToOutput`** Saves the rasterized image(s) to disk. Once this method is called, no more rasterization can take place.
- **`setQuantizeMethod`** Changes the quanitization method for downsampling images when writing animated gifs.
- **`setSelector`** Sets the full CSS path to an element, which limits the rasterization to that area of the page.
- **`setCss`** Specifies additional CSS which is applied immediately to the page.
- **`setCropRect`** Specifies the absolute x, y, width and height of a cropping rectangle. This crop takes place as the last step of rasterization.
- **`setSmartWidth`** Takes a boolean argument to enable or disable using smart width calculation before rasterizing.



